# Libft
Libft is a project from 42 school, consisting of recreating the standard C library (libc) by manually re-implementing some of its functions. The goal is to strengthen your understanding of fundamental C concepts, such as memory management, pointers, and string manipulation.

## Contents
This library includes functions for string manipulation, memory management, and other utilities to ease C development.

## Features
- String manipulation (strlen, strdup, strchr, etc.)
- Memory management (malloc, free, memcpy, etc.)
- String conversion (atoi, itoa, etc.)
- Various utility functions

## Installation
- Clone this repository into your local directory:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/chrlgssr/libft.git
```
- Compile the library using the Makefile:

```bash
cd libft
make
```
This will generate the libft.a archive, which you can use in your projects.

## Usage
Compiling a Program with libft.a

Once the library is compiled, you can use it in your projects. Here's how to compile a C program with the libft.a library:

- Create a main.c file where you will use the libft functions. Example code in main.c:

```c
#include "libft.h"

int main(void)
{
    char *str;
    
    str = "Hello, World!";
    ft_printf(1, "%s\n", str);
    return (0);
}
```
ft_printf here is assumed to behave similarly to dprintf, where the first argument is the file descriptor (1 for stdout).
## Compilation
- To compile the program with libft.a and the header libft.h in the inc folder, use the following command:

```bash
cc -o my_program main.c -I libft/inc libft/libft.a
```

Explanation:

- cc is the C compiler.

- -I libft/inc specifies the directory where the libft.h header file is located. This allows the compiler to find it.

- main.c is your source file.

- libft/libft.a is the static archive generated by make that contains all the library functions.

Then, you can run the compiled program:

```bash
./my_program
```
You should see:
```bash
Hello, World!
```

## Using with a Makefile
If you have a more complex project, it might be useful to create a Makefile to compile your program with libft.a.

Here's an updated Makefile example:

```Makefile
NAME = my_program
LIBFT = libft/libft.a
INCLUDES = -I libft/inc

SRCS = main.c
OBJS = $(SRCS:.c=.o)

CC = cc
CFLAGS = -Wall -Wextra -Werror

$(NAME): $(OBJS) $(LIBFT)
	$(CC) $(OBJS) -o $(NAME) $(LIBFT) $(INCLUDES)

$(LIBFT):
	$(MAKE) -C libft

clean:
	rm -f $(OBJS)
	$(MAKE) clean -C libft

fclean: clean
	rm -f $(NAME)
	$(MAKE) fclean -C libft

re: fclean $(NAME)

.PHONY: clean fclean re
```
With this Makefile, you can simply run:

```bash
make
```
This will:

- Compile main.c and create my_program.
- Use the libft.a library generated in the libft folder.
- Include the libft/inc directory to find the libft.h header file.

## Author
cgrasser

